
1. Metabolism. 2015 Nov;64(11):1521-9. doi: 10.1016/j.metabol.2015.07.021. Epub 2015
Jul 30.

Effects of pistachios on the lipid/lipoprotein profile, glycemic control,
inflammation, and endothelial function in type 2 diabetes: A randomized trial.

Sauder KA(1), McCrea CE(1), Ulbrecht JS(1), Kris-Etherton PM(2), West SG(3).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biobehavioral Health, 219 Biobehavioral Health Building, The
Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, 16802, USA. (2)Department of 
Nutritional Sciences, 110 Chandlee Laboratory, The Pennsylvania State University,
University Park, PA, 16802, USA. (3)Department of Biobehavioral Health, 219
Biobehavioral Health Building, The Pennsylvania State University, University
Park, PA, 16802, USA; Department of Nutritional Sciences, 110 Chandlee
Laboratory, The Pennsylvania State University, University Park, PA, 16802, USA.
Electronic address: sgw2@psu.edu.

OBJECTIVE: The health benefits of regular nut consumption have been
well-documented; however, effects on cardiovascular risk in diabetes are
emerging. This study examined the effects of daily pistachio consumption on the
lipid/lipoprotein profile, glycemic control, markers of inflammation, and
endothelial function in adults with type 2 diabetes.
MATERIALS/METHODS: We enrolled 30 adults (40-74 years) with well-controlled type 
2 diabetes (mean glycated hemoglobin 6.2%) in a randomized, crossover, controlled
feeding study. After a 2-week run-in period, participants consumed
nutritionally-adequate diets with pistachios (contributing 20% of total energy)
or without pistachios for 4 weeks each, separated by a 2-week washout. We
assessed fasting lipids/lipoproteins, glycemic measures (while fasted and during 
a 75 g oral glucose tolerance test), inflammatory markers, and endothelial
function after each diet period.
RESULTS: Total cholesterol and the ratio of total to HDL cholesterol were
significantly lower (p<0.05) following the pistachio diet (4.00 mmol/L and 4.06
mmol/L, respectively) compared to the control diet (4.15 mmol/L and 4.37 mmol/L, 
respectively). Triglycerides were significantly lower (p=0.003) following the
pistachio diet (1.56 mmol/L) compared to the control diet (1.84 mmol/L). There
were no treatment differences in fasting glucose and insulin, but fructosamine
was significantly lower (p=0.03) following the pistachio diet (228.5 μmol/l)
compared to the control diet (233.5 μmol/l). Inflammatory markers and endothelial
function were unchanged.
CONCLUSION: Daily pistachio consumption can improve some cardiometabolic risk
factors in adults with well-controlled type 2 diabetes. Our findings support
recommendations that individuals with diabetes follow healthy dietary patterns
that include nuts.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Inc.

PMID: 26383493  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


2. JAMA. 2015 Sep 8;314(10):1052-62. doi: 10.1001/jama.2015.9536.

Diabetes: Advances in Diagnosis and Treatment.

Nathan DM(1).

Author information: 
(1)Diabetes Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School,
Boston, Massachusetts.

Erratum in
    JAMA. 2015 Dec 22-29;314(24):2693.

IMPORTANCE: Chronic diseases have overtaken acute diseases, such as infections,
as the major cause of premature mortality worldwide. Diabetes mellitus, a chronic
degenerative metabolic disease, has reached epidemic proportions in the past 30
years, with worldwide prevalence approaching 400 million people.
OBSERVATIONS AND ADVANCES: The epidemic is largely secondary to an increasing
sedentary lifestyle and highly prevalent overweight and obesity contributing to
the development of type 2 diabetes. Clinical research efforts have developed and 
demonstrated effective strategies for prevention, and the annual incidence of
diabetes in the United States may be decreasing for the first time in 3 decades. 
The long-term complications of diabetes cause severe morbidity and mortality.
Here too the means of reducing the burden of microvascular and cardiovascular
disease have been proved.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Improved glycemic control and better management of
other identified risk factors for the complications of diabetes and more
effective treatment of cardiovascular disease and microvascular complications
have resulted in a more optimistic outlook for people with diabetes. This review 
focuses on recent advances in diagnosis and management and the remaining
challenges in the prevention and treatment of diabetes mellitus.

PMID: 26348754  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Hosp Pediatr. 2015 Sep;5(9):501-4. doi: 10.1542/hpeds.2015-0086.

Late-Onset Hypoglycemia in Term Newborns With Poor Breastfeeding.

Seske LM(1), Merhar SL(2), Haberman BE(2).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Neonatology and Pulmonary Biology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital 
Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio; and Center for Prevention of Preterm Birth,
Perinatal Institute, Cincinnati, Ohio laura.seske@cchmc.org. (2)Division of
Neonatology and Pulmonary Biology, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center,
Cincinnati, Ohio; and Center for Prevention of Preterm Birth, Perinatal
Institute, Cincinnati, Ohio.

PMID: 26330250  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


4. J Nutr. 2015 Sep;145(9):2076-83. doi: 10.3945/jn.115.213595. Epub 2015 Aug 5.

Higher Total Protein Intake and Change in Total Protein Intake Affect Body
Composition but Not Metabolic Syndrome Indexes in Middle-Aged Overweight and
Obese Adults Who Perform Resistance and Aerobic Exercise for 36 Weeks.

Campbell WW(1), Kim JE(2), Amankwaah AF(2), Gordon SL(2), Weinheimer-Haus EM(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Nutrition Science, Purdue University, West Lafayette, IN
campbellw@purdue.edu. (2)Department of Nutrition Science, Purdue University, West
Lafayette, IN.

BACKGROUND: Studies assessing the effects of protein supplementation on changes
in body composition (BC) and health rarely consider the impact of total protein
intake (TPro) or the change in TPro (CTPro) from participants' usual diets.
OBJECTIVE: This secondary data analysis assessed the impact of TPro and CTPro on 
changes in BC and metabolic syndrome (MetS) indexes in overweight and obese
middle-aged adults who participated in an exercise training program.
METHODS: Men and women [n = 117; age: 50 ± 0.7 y, body mass index (BMI; in
kg/m(2)): 30.1 ± 0.3; means ± SEs] performed resistance exercise 2 d/wk and
aerobic exercise 1 d/wk and consumed an unrestricted diet along with 200-kcal
supplements (0, 10, 20, or 30 g whey protein) twice daily for 36 wk. Protein
intake was assessed via 4-d food records. Multiple linear regression model and
stratified analysis were applied for data analyses.
RESULTS: Among all subjects, TPro and CTPro were inversely associated (P < 0.05) 
with changes in body mass, fat mass (FM), and BMI. Changes in BC were different
(P < 0.05) among groups that consumed <1.0 (n = 43) vs. ≥1.0 to <1.2 (n = 29) vs.
≥1.2 g · kg(-1) · d(-1) (n = 45). The TPro group with ≥1.0 to <1.2 g ·: kg(-1) ·:
d(-1) reduced FM and %FM and increased percentage of LM (%LM) compared with the
lowest TPro group, whereas the TPro group with ≥1.2 g ·: kg(-1) ·: d(-1)
presented intermediate responses on changes in FM, %FM, and %LM. The gain in LM
was not different among groups. In addition, MetS indexes were not influenced by 
TPro and CTPro.
CONCLUSIONS: In conjunction with exercise training, higher TPro promoted positive
changes in BC but not in MetS indexes in overweight and obese middle-aged adults.
Changes in TPro from before to during the intervention also influenced BC
responses and should be considered in future research when different TPro is
achieved via diet or supplements. This trial was registered at clinicaltrials.gov
as NCT00812409.

© 2015 American Society for Nutrition.

PMCID: PMC4548166 [Available on 2016-09-01]
PMID: 26246322  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Aug 11;112(32):9996-10001. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1513004112. Epub 2015 Jul 27.

Synaptotagmin-7 phosphorylation mediates GLP-1-dependent potentiation of insulin 
secretion from β-cells.

Wu B(1), Wei S(1), Petersen N(1), Ali Y(1), Wang X(1), Bacaj T(2), Rorsman P(3), 
Hong W(4), Südhof TC(5), Han W(6).

Author information: 
(1)Singapore Bioimaging Consortium, Agency for Science, Technology and Research, 
Singapore 138667, Republic of Singapore; (2)Department of Molecular and Cellular 
Physiology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford University School of
Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; (3)Oxford Centre for Diabetes, Endocrinology and
Metabolism, University of Oxford, Churchill Hospital, Headington OX3 7LE, United 
Kingdom; (4)Institute of Molecular and Cell Biology, Agency for Science,
Technology and Research, Singapore 138673, Republic of Singapore. (5)Department
of Molecular and Cellular Physiology, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Stanford
University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA 94305; tcs1@stanford.edu
weiping_han@sbic.a-star.edu.sg. (6)Singapore Bioimaging Consortium, Agency for
Science, Technology and Research, Singapore 138667, Republic of Singapore;
tcs1@stanford.edu weiping_han@sbic.a-star.edu.sg.

Glucose stimulates insulin secretion from β-cells by increasing intracellular
Ca(2+). Ca(2+) then binds to synaptotagmin-7 as a major Ca(2+) sensor for
exocytosis, triggering secretory granule fusion and insulin secretion. In type-2 
diabetes, insulin secretion is impaired; this impairment is ameliorated by
glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) or by GLP-1 receptor agonists, which improve
glucose homeostasis. However, the mechanism by which GLP-1 receptor agonists
boost insulin secretion remains unclear. Here, we report that GLP-1 stimulates
protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent phosphorylation of synaptotagmin-7 at
serine-103, which enhances glucose- and Ca(2+)-stimulated insulin secretion and
accounts for the improvement of glucose homeostasis by GLP-1. A phospho-mimetic
synaptotagmin-7 mutant enhances Ca(2+)-triggered exocytosis, whereas a
phospho-inactive synaptotagmin-7 mutant disrupts GLP-1 potentiation of insulin
secretion. Our findings thus suggest that synaptotagmin-7 is directly activated
by GLP-1 signaling and may serve as a drug target for boosting insulin secretion.
Moreover, our data reveal, to our knowledge, the first physiological modulation
of Ca(2+)-triggered exocytosis by direct phosphorylation of a synaptotagmin.

PMCID: PMC4538675 [Available on 2016-02-11]
PMID: 26216970  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Am J Physiol Regul Integr Comp Physiol. 2015 Oct;309(7):R788-94. doi:
10.1152/ajpregu.00244.2015. Epub 2015 Jul 22.

Transgenic expression of the human growth hormone minigene promotes pancreatic
β-cell proliferation.

Baan M(1), Kibbe CR(1), Bushkofsky JR(1), Harris TW(1), Sherman DS(1), Davis
DB(2).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, University of
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin; and. (2)Department of Medicine, Division
of Endocrinology, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin; and
William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital, Madison, Wisconsin
dbd@medicine.wisc.edu.

Transgenic mouse models are designed to study the role of specific proteins. To
increase transgene expression the human growth hormone (hGH) minigene, including 
introns, has been included in many transgenic constructs. Until recently, it was 
thought that the hGH gene was not spliced, transcribed, and translated to produce
functional hGH protein. We generated a transgenic mouse with the transcription
factor Forkhead box M1 (FoxM1) followed by the hGH minigene, under control of the
mouse insulin promoter (MIP) to target expression specifically in the pancreatic 
β-cell. Expression of FoxM1 in isolated pancreatic islets in vitro stimulates
β-cell proliferation. We aimed to investigate the effect of FoxM1 on β-cell mass 
in a mouse model for diabetes mellitus. However, we found inadvertent
coexpression of hGH protein from a spliced, bicistronic mRNA. MIP-FoxM1-hGH mice 
had lower blood glucose and higher pancreatic insulin content, due to increased
β-cell proliferation. hGH signals through the murine prolactin receptor, and
expression of its downstream targets tryptophan hydroxylase-1 (Tph1), tryptophan 
hydroxylase-2 (Tph2), and cytokine-inducible SH2 containing protein (Cish) was
increased. Conversely, transcriptional targets of FoxM1 were not upregulated. Our
data suggest that the phenotype of MIP-FoxM1-hGH mice is due primarily to hGH
activity and that the FoxM1 protein remains largely inactive. Over the past
decades, multiple transgenic mouse strains were generated that make use of the
hGH minigene to increase transgene expression. Our work suggests that each will
need to be carefully screened for inadvertent hGH production and critically
evaluated for the use of proper controls.

PMCID: PMC4631542 [Available on 2016-10-01]
PMID: 26202070  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


7. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2015 Oct;100(10):3778-86. doi: 10.1210/jc.2015-2328.
Epub 2015 Jul 22.

Steroid Sex Hormones, Sex Hormone-Binding Globulin, and Diabetes Incidence in the
Diabetes Prevention Program.

Mather KJ(1), Kim C(1), Christophi CA(1), Aroda VR(1), Knowler WC(1), Edelstein
SE(1), Florez JC(1), Labrie F(1), Kahn SE(1), Goldberg RB(1), Barrett-Connor
E(1); Diabetes Prevention Program.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Medicine (K.J.M.), Indiana University, Indianapolis, Indiana
46202; Departments of Medicine and Obstetrics & Gynecology (C.K.), University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48109; Biostatistics Center (C.A.C., S.E.E.),
George Washington University, Rockville, Maryland 20850; Medstar Health Research 
Institute (V.R.A.), Hyattsville, Maryland 20782; National Institute of Diabetes
and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (W.C.K.), Phoenix, Arizona 85014; Diabetes
Research Center (Diabetes Unit) and Center for Human Genetics Research (J.C.F.), 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts 02114; Program in Medical
and Population Genetics (J.C.F.), Broad Institute, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02142; Department of Medicine (J.C.F.), Harvard Medical School, Boston,
Massachusetts 02115; Endoceutics Inc. (F.L.), Québec City, G1W 2J5, Canada; VA
Puget Sound Health Care System and University of Washington (S.E.K.), Seattle,
Washington 98108; University of Miami (R.B.G.), Miami, Florida 33124; and
University of California, San Diego (E.B.-C.), San Diego, California 92093.

CONTEXT: Steroid sex hormones and SHBG may modify metabolism and diabetes risk,
with implications for sex-specific diabetes risk and effects of prevention
interventions.
OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to evaluate the relationships of steroid sex
hormones, SHBG and SHBG single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) with diabetes risk
factors and with progression to diabetes in the Diabetes Prevention Program
(DPP).
DESIGN AND SETTING: This was a secondary analysis of a multicenter randomized
clinical trial involving 27 U.S. academic institutions.
PARTICIPANTS: The study included 2898 DPP participants: 969 men, 948
premenopausal women not taking exogenous sex hormones, 550 postmenopausal women
not taking exogenous sex hormones, and 431 postmenopausal women taking exogenous 
sex hormones.
INTERVENTIONS: Participants were randomized to receive intensive lifestyle
intervention, metformin, or placebo.
MAIN OUTCOMES: Associations of steroid sex hormones, SHBG, and SHBG SNPs with
glycemia and diabetes risk factors, and with incident diabetes over median 3.0
years (maximum, 5.0 y).
RESULTS: T and DHT were inversely associated with fasting glucose in men, and
estrone sulfate was directly associated with 2-hour post-challenge glucose in men
and premenopausal women. SHBG was associated with fasting glucose in
premenopausal women not taking exogenous sex hormones, and in postmenopausal
women taking exogenous sex hormones, but not in the other groups. Diabetes
incidence was directly associated with estrone and estradiol and inversely with T
in men; the association with T was lost after adjustment for waist circumference.
Sex steroids were not associated with diabetes outcomes in women. SHBG and SHBG
SNPs did not predict incident diabetes in the DPP population.
CONCLUSIONS: Estrogens and T predicted diabetes risk in men but not in women.
SHBG and its polymorphisms did not predict risk in men or women. Diabetes risk is
more potently determined by obesity and glycemia than by sex hormones.

PMCID: PMC4596040 [Available on 2016-10-01]
PMID: 26200237  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Clin Sci (Lond). 2015 Oct;129(7):561-74. doi: 10.1042/CS20150204. Epub 2015 Jun
11.

Impaired mitochondrial energy supply coupled to increased H2O2 emission under
energy/redox stress leads to myocardial dysfunction during Type I diabetes.

Tocchetti CG(1), Stanley BA(2), Sivakumaran V(2), Bedja D(3), O'Rourke B(2),
Paolocci N(2), Cortassa S(2), Aon MA(4).

Author information: 
(1)Division of Cardiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205, U.S.A. Department of Translational Medical Sciences,
Division of Internal Medicine, Federico II University, Naples, NA 80131, Italy.
(2)Division of Cardiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine,
Baltimore, MD 21205, U.S.A. (3)Division of Cardiology, Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205, U.S.A. Australian School of Advanced
Medicine, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia. (4)Division of
Cardiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21205,
U.S.A. maon1@jhmi.edu.

In Type I diabetic (T1DM) patients, both peaks of hyperglycaemia and increased
sympathetic tone probably contribute to impair systolic and diastolic function.
However, how these stressors eventually alter cardiac function during T1DM is not
fully understood. In the present study, we hypothesized that impaired
mitochondrial energy supply and excess reactive oxygen species (ROS) emission is 
centrally involved in T1DM cardiac dysfunction due to metabolic/redox stress and 
aimed to determine the mitochondrial sites implicated in these alterations. To
this end, we used isolated myocytes and mitochondria from Sham and streptozotocin
(STZ)-induced T1DM guinea pigs (GPs), untreated or treated with insulin. Relative
to controls, T1DM myocytes exhibited higher oxidative stress when challenged with
high glucose (HG) combined with β-adrenergic stimulation [via isoprenaline
(isoproterenol) (ISO)], leading to contraction/relaxation deficits. T1DM
mitochondria had decreased respiration with complex II and IV substrates and
markedly lower ADP phosphorylation rates and higher H2O2 emission when challenged
with oxidants to mimic the more oxidized redox milieu present in HG + ISO-treated
cardiomyocytes. Since in T1DM hearts insulin-sensitivity is preserved and a
glucose-to-fatty acid (FA) shift occurs, we next tested whether insulin therapy
or acute palmitate (Palm) infusion prevents HG + ISO-induced cardiac dysfunction.
We found that insulin rescued proper cardiac redox balance, but not mitochondrial
respiration or contractile performance. Conversely, Palm restored redox balance
and preserved myocyte function. Thus, stressors such as peaks of HG and
adrenergic hyperactivity impair mitochondrial respiration, hampering energy
supply while exacerbating ROS emission. Our study suggests that an ideal
therapeutic measure to treat metabolically/redox-challenged T1DM hearts should
concomitantly correct energetic and redox abnormalities to fully maintain cardiac
function.

© 2015 Authors; published by Portland Press Limited.

PMID: 26186741  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


9. J Biol Chem. 2015 Aug 28;290(35):21432-42. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M115.645291. Epub
2015 Jul 15.

The Zinc Transporter Slc30a8/ZnT8 Is Required in a Subpopulation of Pancreatic
α-Cells for Hypoglycemia-induced Glucagon Secretion.

Solomou A(1), Meur G(1), Bellomo E(1), Hodson DJ(1), Tomas A(2), Li SM(3),
Philippe E(3), Herrera PL(4), Magnan C(3), Rutter GA(5).

Author information: 
(1)From the Section of Cell Biology and Functional Genomics, Division of Diabetes
Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine, Imperial College London,
London W12 0NN, United Kingdom. (2)From the Section of Cell Biology and
Functional Genomics, Division of Diabetes Endocrinology and Metabolism,
Department of Medicine, Imperial College London, London W12 0NN, United Kingdom, 
the Department of Cell Biology, Institute of Ophthalmology, University College
London, Greater London EC1V 9EL, United Kingdom. (3)the University Paris
Diderot-Paris 7, Unit of Functional and Adaptive Biology (BFA) EAC 7059 CNRS,
75013 Paris, France, and. (4)the Department of Genetic Medicine and Development, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Geneva, 1 rue Michel-Servet, 1211 Geneva-4,
Switzerland. (5)From the Section of Cell Biology and Functional Genomics,
Division of Diabetes Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Medicine,
Imperial College London, London W12 0NN, United Kingdom, g.rutter@imperial.ac.uk.

SLC30A8 encodes a zinc transporter ZnT8 largely restricted to pancreatic islet β-
and α-cells, and responsible for zinc accumulation into secretory granules.
Although common SLC30A8 variants, believed to reduce ZnT8 activity, increase type
2 diabetes risk in humans, rare inactivating mutations are protective. To
investigate the role of Slc30a8 in the control of glucagon secretion, Slc30a8 was
inactivated selectively in α-cells by crossing mice with alleles floxed at exon 1
to animals expressing Cre recombinase under the pre-proglucagon promoter. Further
crossing to Rosa26:tdRFP mice, and sorting of RFP(+): glucagon(+) cells from KO
mice, revealed recombination in ∼ 30% of α-cells, of which ∼ 50% were
ZnT8-negative (14 ± 1.8% of all α-cells). Although glucose and insulin tolerance 
were normal, female αZnT8KO mice required lower glucose infusion rates during
hypoglycemic clamps and displayed enhanced glucagon release (p < 0.001) versus WT
mice. Correspondingly, islets isolated from αZnT8KO mice secreted more glucagon
at 1 mm glucose, but not 17 mm glucose, than WT controls (n = 5; p = 0.008).
Although the expression of other ZnT family members was unchanged, cytoplasmic (n
= 4 mice per genotype; p < 0.0001) and granular (n = 3, p < 0.01) free Zn(2+)
levels were significantly lower in KO α-cells versus control cells. In response
to low glucose, the amplitude and frequency of intracellular Ca(2+) increases
were unchanged in α-cells of αZnT8KO KO mice. ZnT8 is thus important in a subset 
of α-cells for normal responses to hypoglycemia and acts via Ca(2+)-independent
mechanisms.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

PMCID: PMC4571871
PMID: 26178371  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Ann Intern Med. 2015 Sep 15;163(6):437-51. doi: 10.7326/M15-0452.

Combined Diet and Physical Activity Promotion Programs to Prevent Type 2 Diabetes
Among Persons at Increased Risk: A Systematic Review for the Community Preventive
Services Task Force.

Balk EM, Earley A, Raman G, Avendano EA, Pittas AG, Remington PL.

BACKGROUND: Trials have shown efficacy of rigorous diet and physical activity
promotion programs to reduce diabetes incidence and improve glycemic measures in 
adults at increased risk for type 2 diabetes.
PURPOSE: To evaluate diet and physical activity promotion programs for persons at
increased risk for type 2 diabetes, primarily to reduce diabetes risk and
decrease body weight and glycemia.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, CAB
Abstracts, Global Health, and Ovid HealthSTAR from 1991 through 27 February 2015,
with no language restriction.
STUDY SELECTION: 8 researchers screened articles for single-group or comparative 
studies of combined diet and physical activity promotion programs with at least 2
sessions over at least 3 months in participants at increased risk for type 2
diabetes.
DATA EXTRACTION: 7 researchers extracted data on study design; participant,
intervention, and outcome descriptions; and results and assessed study quality.
DATA SYNTHESIS: 53 studies (30 of diet and physical activity promotion programs
vs. usual care, 13 of more intensive vs. less intensive programs, and 13 of
single programs) evaluated 66 programs. Compared with usual care, diet and
physical activity promotion programs reduced type 2 diabetes incidence (risk
ratio [RR], 0.59 [95% CI, 0.52 to 0.66]) (16 studies), decreased body weight (net
change, -2.2% [CI, -2.9% to -1.4%]) (24 studies) and fasting blood glucose level 
(net change, -0.12 mmol/L [-2.2 mg/dL] [CI, -0.20 to -0.05 mmol/L {-3.6 to -0.9
mg/dL}]) (17 studies), and improved other cardiometabolic risk factors. Evidence 
for clinical events was limited. More intensive programs were more effective.
LIMITATIONS: Wide variation in diet and physical activity promotion programs
limited identification of features most relevant to effectiveness. Evidence on
clinical outcomes and in children was sparse.
CONCLUSION: Combined diet and physical activity promotion programs are effective 
at decreasing diabetes incidence and improving cardiometabolic risk factors in
persons at increased risk. More intensive programs are more effective.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Community
Preventive Services Task Force.

PMCID: PMC4692590 [Available on 2016-03-15]
PMID: 26167912  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Jul 21;112(29):9129-34. doi:
10.1073/pnas.1504705112. Epub 2015 Jul 7.

Inhibition of MCU forces extramitochondrial adaptations governing physiological
and pathological stress responses in heart.

Rasmussen TP(1), Wu Y(2), Joiner ML(3), Koval OM(3), Wilson NR(2), Luczak ED(2), 
Wang Q(2), Chen B(3), Gao Z(3), Zhu Z(3), Wagner BA(4), Soto J(3), McCormick
ML(4), Kutschke W(3), Weiss RM(3), Yu L(5), Boudreau RL(3), Abel ED(6), Zhan
F(3), Spitz DR(4), Buettner GR(4), Song LS(3), Zingman LV(3), Anderson ME(7).

Author information: 
(1)Department of Molecular Physiology and Biophysics, University of Iowa Carver
College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA 52242; Department of Internal Medicine,
University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA 52242; (2)Department
of Medicine, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD
21287; (3)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Iowa Carver College of
Medicine, Iowa City, IA 52242; (4)Free Radical and Radiation Biology Program,
University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA 52242; (5)Department
of Biochemistry, University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA
52242; Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Core Facility, University of Iowa Carver
College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA 52242; (6)Department of Internal Medicine,
University of Iowa Carver College of Medicine, Iowa City, IA 52242; Fraternal
Order of Eagles Diabetes Research Center, University of Iowa Carver College of
Medicine, Iowa City, IA 52242. (7)Department of Medicine, The Johns Hopkins
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD 21287; mark.anderson@jhmi.edu.

Myocardial mitochondrial Ca(2+) entry enables physiological stress responses but 
in excess promotes injury and death. However, tissue-specific in vivo systems for
testing the role of mitochondrial Ca(2+) are lacking. We developed a mouse model 
with myocardial delimited transgenic expression of a dominant negative (DN) form 
of the mitochondrial Ca(2+) uniporter (MCU). DN-MCU mice lack MCU-mediated
mitochondrial Ca(2+) entry in myocardium, but, surprisingly, isolated perfused
hearts exhibited higher O2 consumption rates (OCR) and impaired pacing induced
mechanical performance compared with wild-type (WT) littermate controls. In
contrast, OCR in DN-MCU-permeabilized myocardial fibers or isolated mitochondria 
in low Ca(2+) were not increased compared with WT, suggesting that DN-MCU
expression increased OCR by enhanced energetic demands related to
extramitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis. Consistent with this, we found that DN-MCU
ventricular cardiomyocytes exhibited elevated cytoplasmic [Ca(2+)] that was
partially reversed by ATP dialysis, suggesting that metabolic defects arising
from loss of MCU function impaired physiological intracellular Ca(2+)
homeostasis. Mitochondrial Ca(2+) overload is thought to dissipate the inner
mitochondrial membrane potential (ΔΨm) and enhance formation of reactive oxygen
species (ROS) as a consequence of ischemia-reperfusion injury. Our data show that
DN-MCU hearts had preserved ΔΨm and reduced ROS during ischemia reperfusion but
were not protected from myocardial death compared with WT. Taken together, our
findings show that chronic myocardial MCU inhibition leads to previously
unanticipated compensatory changes that affect cytoplasmic Ca(2+) homeostasis,
reprogram transcription, increase OCR, reduce performance, and prevent
anticipated therapeutic responses to ischemia-reperfusion injury.

PMCID: PMC4517214
PMID: 26153425  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]

